So far we've only been providing two
values to our slices, the start and stop
values. But slices can also take a step
value, which defaults to one. So let's see
some examples before we discuss the
syntax more formally. So what I'm going
to do is delete the code, other than the
definition of parrot on line 3,
and I'm going to type on line 5, print
parenthesis parrot square bracket
0:6:2, and close off the square
bracket and parentheses, and we'll put a
comment to the effect of the output
being capital N r e. And on line 6 I'm
going to type print parenthesis parrot left
square bracket 0:6:3 this
time, and right square bracket and
parenthesis, and comment, the output
should be Nw. So the slice on line 5 is
starting from index 0, which is the
capital N, extracting all the characters
up to, but not including index 6, which is
the i, in steps of 2.
So let's confirm that that works by running it, and you
can see we get the output that we
thought we should get, and you can see
that we've got that output. Alright so
another example of a slice where the
step is as follows; so I'm going to start
type some code on line 8. I'm going to start by
typing number equals, and double quotes 9
comma 2 2 3 comma 3 7 2 comma 0 3 6
comma 8 5 4 comma 7 7 5 comma and 8 0 7, and we've got a closing double quote there.
Now on line 9 if I type print
parentheses number then square
brackets again 1 colon colon 4, and
closing off the
right bracket and right parenthesis. Now
if we run that, it doesn't appear to be very
useful but it does illustrate using a
step in slices. So it starts at position 1,
which is the first comma, and it's
slicing every fourth character. The list
extends all the way to the end of the
string and that's because we've omitted
the stop value, and that gives us all the
commas. So I said it didn't appear to be
useful, however, it can be. In order to
show you how it's useful, we're gonna have
to use some things that we'll be looking
at later. I don't like doing this
generally, and I won't be doing it often,
but I think something like that slice
will make more sense if you can see a
practical application of it. So what I'm
going to do is start by changing some of
the separators. At the moment they're all
commas, but it's possible we may have to
process a stream that contains a mix of
separators. So what I'm going to do is
use a mix of commas, semicolons, colons
and spaces. These are all the things you
might find used as separators when
processing data. So we've got 9 comma
2 2 3. Let's change the comma
after the 2 2 3 to a semicolon,
and then moving on we've got, after
3 7 2, we'll replace that comma
with a colon. The next one after the O 3 6,
we'll put a space there
instead, and we'll leave the next one,
8 5 4, leave that as a
comma, and the one down the end here
before the 8 0 7, we'll add a semicolon
there as well. So if we run this program
again now, we've changed those separators.
You can see with the output there, we've
actually got comma, semi colon, colon
space, comma, semicolon. So why is that
useful? Well if that number string
represents seven values that appear in a
data file, we can use the separator
string to split out the seven values. Now
this is the bit that I don't want you to
worry about. Think of it as a
demonstration. It's all stuff that you'll
be learning about in later videos.
So what I'm going to do is start by binding
a variable to the slice instead of
printing it out. So I'm going to change line
9 there. Instead of print, we're going
to type separators is equal to, and I'll
just remove the parenthesis on the end
there, and then we're going to print
separators.
So we've now going a string containing
all the separators that we used in
numbers. Now it's not necessary to print
it, but on line 10 I'm doing that anyway,
just to confirm that we've got the
separators, and obviously that should
work because we've just only made a small
change there, by binding it to the
separators variable. Now we can use the
separators to split out the individual
values. This is the interesting part. So
what I'm going to do is add that. I'm
going to close down the run window, and
on line 12 I'm going to type values is
values = "".join(char if char not in separators else " " for char in number).split()
Then on the next line
print([int(val) for val in values])
Now I don't expect that code on lines 12 and
13 to make sense. Again, I'm using it to
demonstrate why extracting every third
character from a string might be useful.
As you work through the course, you'll
learn what this code's doing and you'll
be able to write code like that for yourself.
Now if you're typing the code in
as you watch, you may want to copy and
paste those two lines from the
transcript for this video. The source
code is also available in the resources
for this video if you want to do that.
It's very important that you use the
correct type of brackets. The second one
you see me use was a square bracket, and
obviously, I'm using parentheses there,
which some people also call brackets,
as well. So basically, make sure you've
typed it in exactly as you can see it
here in order for it to work. Now if we
run this program, and you can see the output
is now showing us the seven values that
we've extracted from the string, that
we bound to the number variable on line 8.
I think that's pretty impressive when
you consider it's only a few lines of
code there, and I'll just bring that back on
the screen so you can see it. It's very
hard to come up with real-world examples,
when all we've covered so far in the
course are variables, ints and strings, but
hopefully, that demonstration has put the
slice into a useful context. So make sure
though, you understand how that slice
on line 9 is working, and then I'll see
you in the next video. And in that video
we're going to look at slicing backwards.
See you in the next video.